did you think inflation was over and out
well I'm going to show you why it is
entrenched right now today it's not
going away unless there's some sort of
catastrophe that we face and of course
the news is no short of that type of
information but I'm going to bring you
the real scenario of what we are
experiencing right now so many different
data points and then of course what you
can do about this all that we can deal
with the issue that we can withstand the
crisis this is possible people are doing
it and they are taking action and we'll
talk about some of that today my name is
David quinterian what I do at this
channel is bring you the latest and
greatest information distilling all of
the nonsense and jargon that bring you
what you need to know I'm knee deep in
the trenches so that you don't have to
be let's begin by taking a look at
inflation the first thing I want to talk
about is something that has been on
everybody's mind recently inside the
financial industry they're worried
they're concerned that student loan
interests zooms and what that means for
borrowers of course they're going to
have to start paying this back some
suggest they won't but you got to
understand you cannot default on this
borrowers will see their return their
loans return to their previous rates
typically between three to seven percent
the interest rates on federal student
loans are fixed once dispersed but vary
depending on when they are taken out so
they didn't have to do this right here
the statistics I have seen before
although it says 350 here 390 dollars
and I believe it was Barclays who did
the study on that all you need to know
is that hundreds of dollars need to be
paid every month people don't have this
money ready and able to be just paid out
on a monthly basis it's just not what
they have and so you know that there's
40 million people that are in this
circumstance and of course some of them
are struggling more than others but you
know that it means if 400 going into
this payment it's not going to shopping
it's not going to vacations it's not
going to that car I read an article that
said you need to make six figures a year
in order to afford a new car this is
pure absurdity and this is the kind of
thing that does not end well so this is
where people would point to the
deflationary scenario in that
something's got to give something's got
to crack and we do see those points with
the banks but the other side of this
equation is of course that a crisis is
met with inflation and we only know in
time how this will all be but if you see
any of that deflation you let me know
because I've got my binoculars and that
didn't do the job and then I went into
my microscope and started to dig in and
I still couldn't find any deflation
anywhere but if you let me know where it
is please in the comments below okay all
right here we go you can see buying
versus renting in America my renter
friends out there you're saying you know
the rent is insane my friends who own
they're saying the purchase price is
insane it's insane everywhere okay it's
crazy even in these what you call
tertiary cities the small cities those
ones that maybe they're not particularly
desirable they went up like crazy but
guess what
everything has gone up nothing is
reasonable anymore it seems I go to the
dollar store I'm paying five bucks for
products yes they do have something
people say that oh all the dollar stores
have cheap products I was there I was
looking through DeWalt products DeWalt
okay so it's not necessarily just cheap
stuff anyway the point is when you look
at this right here you can see it for
yourself the rent prices look at it cost
to rent 18.45 a month cost to buy
26.97 a month it you know you can factor
that in so many different ways but just
look at it rent prices yes they did go
up absolutely but look at the cost to
buy that has dramatically risen interest
rates playing a big role there but the
prices just take a look at the prices I
still see this today
where we have dramatic increases where
we have areas that are sought after not
necessarily the highest end areas where
you would have the wealthiest people but
sought after areas nice areas good
family areas that are simply so
expensive and they still have inventory
shortages they still have problems
because these are generally nice areas
they've got the nice schools and
everything this is not something that
will be fixed and if the prices were to
come down by let's say 30 percent 30
percent that still would make them
completely unaffordable if prices came
down by a shocking 50 percent which
would take a catastrophe in a nice area
okay in a nice area
it's still unaffordable I mean that's
the world we live at and if those prices
came down by 50 that means job losses
are at a very high level so something is
definitely broken and the fear my
biggest fear is that we not only you
know maybe we see a little bit of
deflation maybe we see uh uncertainty
which is kind of what we're dealing with
now
but we go in the other direction and we
go to the point where it is entirely
unaffordable for the vast majority of
people inflating to a degree where
people take to the streets
that's a big concern deflation nobody
nobody should fear deflation if you're
ready and willing and prepared you can
deal with deflation
it's inflation that is uncontrollable
and guests who caused that oh yes it's
your friend Jerome Powell it's your
friend Janet Yellen these people are
responsible of course their institutions
are responsible
that's the concern and that's what we
should be aware of let me get on to this
further you can see it it is the
mortgage applications to buy a house
down down of course but what's happening
here is that at the same time as we have
all of these problems no question about
it we're dealing with an issue right now
that is
you know multi-fold you've got higher
interest rates you've got low
inventories you've got home builders
that are basically saying we're not
going to build under these circumstances
right here and so the problem persists
it's nothing really new that's for sure
the housing market on affordability is
the worse now than it was in during the
bubble in 2006. so you know that there
are problems that are entrenched and
will not be resolved tomorrow California
Tech transplants unhappy with Exodus to
Austin
um this is just something that I wanted
to show you because
a lot of these people they move from
California they moved into Texas New
York moved into Florida and other places
um that's not always the solution and a
lot of what the problem is what they say
in the article anyway is that so much of
the talent pool for Tech workers is in
Silicon Valley that's that's where it is
so you can't just move and then say you
know I'm gonna find work over here
because the the pool of workers and of
course the companies yes they've they've
moved offices but it's just not the same
all right and that's just a matter of
fact so so you can't fix every problem
simply by moving that's just not going
to go on all right if you are a tech
worker a lot of that needs to be done in
Silicon Valley right now just keep that
in mind okay whatever you know oil
industry oh I'm going to move to
Manhattan for the oil industry that
might not be the place for you right
okay I need to talk about two
Commodities that is copper as they say
Dr copper and oil If copper is being
bought up it's an indication that things
are healthy and that's why they call it
Dr copper oil is up and could go higher
on potential Cuts we're seeing Saudi
Arabia that has been cutting recently at
least they've lowered their production
and Russia wants to do the same thing
all right rented housing costs are up
dramatically and so we need to keep that
in mind as well I wanted to point those
things out let's look into this copper
is King and oils Bellwether too Chief
among indicators is copper highly
conductive known among commodity Traders
as king copper because it's performance
historically been an indicator of the
entire Metals category and for
Commodities in general it is also known
as Dr copper as though it were a metal
uh with the doctor in economics because
it's performance is often predictive of
shifts in global uh domestic and global
economic output okay they talk about
this it is down from its high but it's
up from you know then it came to so it
went up like crazy came down
and now it has risen once again and so
that really spells to uh potential
strength right here in the demand and
that's what we need to see a lot of
demand copper is used in basically
everything when you're Building Homes
when you're building buildings and of
course electric vehicles as well so
these companies are are just taking that
copper and use many multiples more of
copper in an electric vehicle versus a
combustion vehicle and so you know
electric vehicles they're buying it all
up right now so people are buying into
them and that means more demand more
demand for copper keep that in mind when
we're looking at that and I also want to
touch on oil as well very important
stuff okay and by the way the daily
fluctuations of this not something I
necessarily pay attention to but I just
think it's important to to Watch What
Happens overall
um looking at this with you know as we
talk about oil
um basically just saying while oil and
copper are key indicators for the
commodity markets overall following them
is of course no substitute for
researching specific Commodities and
that's right because you could have a
shortage in one area suddenly you could
have demand that certainly spikes you
know for whatever reason so always keep
an eye on that like how they are saying
you know it's just oh yeah this is the
one indicator no I don't agree with that
at all okay and and oil right now at the
time of this recording WTI being at 85 a
barrel that is something to pay
attention to getting closer and closer
and closer to that hundred dollars a
barrel that people were saying ah not
gonna happen it's inching closer if
there are more Cuts keep an eye out
watch out so having these
at higher levels means higher prices and
that's what I'm trying to get at here if
oil is high that means Transportation
costs are high that means your gasoline
prices are high if copper is high that
means your building materials are higher
that means you know all these prices all
of these things come into play and yeah
they you know if they're too low then
you know jobs are hers people are hurt
by that but when it's too high that
means you're going to experience more
inflation it's getting tough on all
levels what can you do about it though
you're going to sit there are you gonna
are you gonna say oh can't do anything
about it let me just wait let me just
wait for a collapse I'm here waiting for
the collapse no you got to do what you
can today you've got to take action I'm
hearing from people every single day
they're growing gardens they're you know
attaining new skills first things first
you got to get a job in a company that
is either resource based or has some
connection with emerging Industries
that's like you you can't be in an
industry that you know oh you know what
my employer you know they're not really
valid two to five years from now like
you you got to be aware of this and
you've got to think ahead you can do
that exact same job but work for a
different company you're in let's just
say human resources your Human Resources
worker but what company are you working
for are you working for that one that
simply has no end in sight like you're
in a financial company that's likely to
get bought out or likely to get
demolished or you know you're the next
Credit Suisse do you want to work there
or do you want to work for a company
that has some sort of future so that's
one thing now's Now's the Time to start
just start looking start looking to that
learn a skill that's desirable in the
next three to five years you know
whether we are talking about
um AI automation robotics these are just
some of the obvious ones but think about
that okay it doesn't have to be the
latest and greatest thing but but just
make sure it's relevant in the in the
near future
absolutely and then invest in
self-sufficiency because the future is
uncertain we want to increase certainty
and we do that by becoming more
self-sufficient it's a simple matter of
fact okay
simple matter of fact increase
self-sufficiency you you can sleep
better at night why wouldn't you want to
do that okay and that's simple things
like uh if you know people live people
live in areas where their sun is shining
like over 300 days a year you could be
having solar panels there are others
that are you know geothermal is the
right way to go there's others that are
growing gardens in places they've got
greenhouses and they're making it happen
and they're not making excuses
they're just taking action and that's
what I love to see are you an action
taker or do you make excuses
okay let me know What's it gonna be
at least you gotta you gotta be honest
with yourself
this is the place where you got to get
on because we're talking about
self-sufficiency every day we're talking
about getting out of debt getting new
jobs every single day on the Discord
there are 1300 people that are on this
Discord of like-minded people
and we are positive and we are helping
each other every single day check it out
at the link in the description below I
want to see you there say hi when you
come in wave your hand we got all kinds
of good stuff in there okay check it out
and of course the comment of the day
everyone's favorite section I want to uh
thank Zach Ryan for this comment David
Russia is set to make an announcement
next week what we believe will happen is
the brics Nations has agreed for more
oil cuts the bricks have stockpiled oil
reserves already expect higher oil
prices higher inflation and expect the
FED to raise interest rates we're gonna
see what happens will they do this will
Russia cut well that's expected I've
heard of this before as well is it going
to be widespread you got Saudi doing it
okay does that mean the UAE is going to
do it does that mean Iran is going to do
it well I don't know but if that happens
if there are cuts that means prices go
up that means inflation goes up and that
means that puts uh you know a further
burden on the average person so do what
you can every single day I want to thank
you for that comment I want to thank you
for all of your comments out there of
course don't forget to hit thumbs up
because it really does support the
channel so click that button on the way
out I want to thank you for doing so
I've got so much more to come Compass is
coming soon stay tuned I'll see you next
time